

DNS : Domain Name System : 

DNS translates human-readable domain names into numerical IP addresses. (google.com --> 142.251.222.164)
All the computers or the servers or any device communicate using numbers. DNS acts as a phone book of the internet, mapping easily rememberable names to the machine-readable web server IP address that changes based on multiple factors. 

laptop --> local cache check (browser / OS) --> Recursive resolver (ISP / google DNS / Cloudflair) --> root Name Servers --> TLD (Top level Domain Servers) (.com, .org) --> Authoritative Name Servers (stores official master records configured by domain owner) 

A Record : Address Record : it maps the domain name to its IP address and vice versa for IPv4. 
AAAA Record : Address Record : it maps the domain name to its IP address and vice versa for IPv6.
CNAME Record : Cananical Name : forwards domain name to an alias or subdomain name.
MX Record : Mail Exchanger : ROutes incoming emails to the mail servers by hosting email systems.
TXT Record : Text record : to prove ownership of our domain we create this TXT record. It contains arbitrary text data. 

Alias Record : this is an intelligent record, available only in the AWS environment so it can identify the resource changes and we can easily fetch the resources to map with A Record. 

---

ICANN : internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers: This is a governing body for global internet policies. 

IANA : Internet Assigned Numbers Authority : Maintains unique identifiers and rootzonedb. 

---

.ai domain : Anguilla

---

Domain Registrer : GoDaddy, BigRock, Namechap, Hostinger, aws, google dns.. 

---

AWS DNS Service Name: Route53 (DNS port Number : 53)

---

Create a HostedZone in AWS r53 with Domain name as HostedZone Name.

HostedZone Name = Domain Name

---

Step 1 : create a domain name at any domain registrar like GoDaddy, BigRock, Namecheap, or Hostinger. 

Step 2 : create a hosted zone in AWS Route53 with the same name. 

Step 3 : grab the four name servers we get when we create a hosted zone. We need to configure this at the domain registrar. 

ns-1660.awsdns-15.co.uk
ns-666.awsdns-19.net
ns-1156.awsdns-16.org
ns-393.awsdns-49.com

These name server changes will take at least 24 hours whenever you perform this operation for the first time. 

----


ACM : Amazon Certificate manager : 

You are hosting your application in an AWS environment and you want to map an SSL or TLS certificate to that application. Earlier that certificate expired and your team did not notice. You don't want to get into that issue again. How can you auto-renew SSL or TLS certificates for AWS-hosted applications? 
Ans : we can use ACM with domain validation using Route 53-hosted zone record creation so the SSL certificate will automatically renew. (Validation method: DNS)


---

Google DNS Server IP : 
8.8.8.8
8.8.4.4

Cloudflare DNS IP : 
1.1.1.1
1.0.0.1

Cloudflare DNS that blocks malware automatically: 
1.1.1.2
1.0.0.2

Cloudflare DNS that blocks malware and Adult Content automatically: 
1.1.1.3
1.0.0.3

---

run --> ncpa.cpl --> Network Interfaces --> propertioes --> ipv4 --> DNS

======





















